Gridulous is intended to be a flexible, extendable grid plugin. There are a few things that I intended this plugin to provide--things I was unable to find in existing plugins:

1. The ability to extract, modify and store configuration of the grid. All changes to the state of the grid are pushed into the configuration before taking any action. That way the configuration is a valid snapshot of the state of the grid at any moment in time.
2. The ability to customize the search dialog for your specific needs. This includes customizing the search filters that you want Gridulous to pass to your service action.
3. Clear exposure of the styling of the grid so that the visual can be customized.
4. Tight jQuery integration so that the grid can be easily hacked apart as needed for your special needs.
5. An object oriented approach to the organization of the code. This is intended to be an aid to navigating the source and making changes you might desire.

At this time, this project is nowhere near ready for primetime but you are more than welcome to grab it and poke around at it. There is a screenshot included in the root directory of the project called ss_01.png that shows what Gridulous looks like as of 6/26/11.

Dependencies:
-------------
1. jQuery                    (http://jquery.com)
2. jQuery-UI                 (http://jqyueryui.com

Coffeescript and SASS:
---------------------
Gridulous is authored in Coffeescript using SASS for the stylesheets. In the deployment zip there are directories for Coffeescript, Javascript, CSS and SASS so that you can use the plugin as you like. If you do not wish to install or use Coffeescript and SASS, just grab the precompiled things out of the deploy zip.

Please note that the images that begin with "ui-" are jQuery-UI images and should be replaced with whatever custom theme you roll. The other images are temporary images that I'll be replacing shortly. I've just been using them in my development environment--I borrowed them from flexigrid (http://flexigrid.info)--the grid plugin that really has set the standard in my opinion.

For a working example of how to configure Gridulous, see people-table.js in public/javascripts. Once you have your own configuration built up, take a quick peek at app/views/people/index.html.haml to see what you have to add to the file to get it working. It's not painful.

On my list of things to do:

1. replace all background images with CSS gradient classes
2. replace HAML dialogs with generic HTML files
3. conditionalize inclusion of the various widget components--only show the pagination bar if the flag is set in the configuration, etc.
4. allow injection of customized classes through the configuration. Easiest: use it with styles provided. Less easy: specify css classes via configuration to customize the appearance. Even less easy: direct manipulation of the .sass or .css files to fully customize the appearance.
5. custom search filters are just a gleam in my eyes at the moment.

My aim is that at the end of the day the only hard external dependencies will be jQuery and jQuery-UI. At the moment HAML is required for the column selection and search dialogs.

Any feedback and/or questions are completely welcomed!
